
layout: post-no-feature
title: "Half Marathon Training 2016"
description: "Out of the comfort zone"
category: Running
tags: [running, fitness, history]

 Running offers something nothing else can. Adds value, stability, and an outlet for the days where nothing can go right. When I’m failing at work or my relationships I can always rely on running. For those that don’t know the high after a good run or the exhilarating feeling of knocking out miles long before the rest of the world even begins to wake in their beds; it’s just unexplainable. The misery and satisfaction of a run that tries to take everything you have, pushes your limits, and lets you explore what you are truly capable of. For years, since my early days of college, I have plugged away at running. As I graduated college, began a career, and dabbled in relationships, running was my companion. Slowly increasing my weekly mileage and working hard to quicken my pace. After over a decade of running solo and following training plans online I finally made the jump into a group training program with a local running store. For the first time I am committing to a rigorous training program that offers accountability and a half-marathon race at the end.

  Currently, I am at the end of week 3 of the training, and am beginning to feel the effects of such a diverse plan. With three runs a week, cross training, and weight training; I am certainly out of my comfort zone. Every Saturday morning, for 12 weeks, a group of runners meet at 7am. Yes, you read that correctly, 7 am. Talk about dedication. I was absolutely shocked to find that I LOVE group runs! The atmosphere and support the running community offers is so motivating. Fellow runners shouting words of encouragement even as you pass them during a run and high fiving at the finish. What other sport offers such a welcoming and empowering community? Feel free not to comment; I won’t believe you. There is just something so special about hammering out miles with a group of like-minded people while watching the sun rise. That sounds oddly romantic. With this amazing first impression of group training, I am more than excited to see what the rest of the training holds.

   This next week I will be attending the first two clinics that will be held for the program participants. The first is a clinic about yoga and the second is about ART. What is ART? No clue. 12 miles, hill runs, cross training, weight training……all while working full time!  I’ll also be nerding out over GPS running watches for women. Been wanting one for ages but there are just so many options, brands, and price ranges. The reviews are less than helpful and I am one picky girl! I’m sure I’ll spend part of the Saturday group run tomorrow interrogating the other girls about what watches work best for them. Talk about multi-tasking!

    The end goal? Survival. To finish the race without vomiting, crying, or losing my dignity/toenails. To follow the training plan to a T (already missed two workouts this week, room for improvement?) and maybe possibly have some fun! So here we go, three weeks down, nine to go. In the next nine weeks I hope to explore more of what I am capable of in the realm of physical fitness and mental strength. Both of which I’ll need plenty of if I want to even have a shot of ending this program with confidence. Welcome to the insane, challenging, and exhilarating world of running.  
